yo what's up I got a question from
support on patreon someone who's
committed to spend one dollar a month to
support this channel my recording and
uploading new content question inviting
me to comment on nuclear power this
question comes from a woman named Kelly
I say that because they're also men
named Kelly uh anyway what up Kelly
Kelly expresses her concern that vegans
ought to have a responsible and balanced
attitude towards nuclear power nuclear
energy as a useful technology in a
period of transition and when she
expresses that in our own words I think
she's actually expressing a majority
opinion or an opinion that is at least
back by the majority of people who are
in positions of power influence within
governments around the world the
technocratic consensus is that nuclear
power is preferable to and superior to
cope out coal power gas power plants
other fossil fuel sources and that we
should have a detached attitude towards
the risks and the environmental hazards
of a nuclear power generation until such
time as a really superior technology
comes along so Kelly may feel like she
her view is marginalized or treated as
extremely unusual amongst vegans it's
certainly possible that in the political
circle shichi lives in that she's
regarded as very unusual for having that
view but it's not an unusual view and
she wrote to me in response to my recent
video criticizing Jill Stein the woman
who was currently the leader of the
Green Party United States of America
woman who was currently running for
president of the United States America
on a green party ticket so what is my
view of nuclear power nuclear power its
risks etc have been a recurring issue
from my earliest childhood memories to
through to my adult life today it has
been an issue everywhere I've lived in
Asia in Canada in Europe it comes up
again and again it's being re-examined
from different angles at different times
and today in 2016 sadly the lessons that
might have been learned from the
disaster Japan the Fukushima Daiichi
reactor meltdown
that event is quickly disappearing from
public memory from the consideration of
the public record and there were very
very serious political lessons to be
learned from that in terms of human
nature and practical political science
we always need to be aware that when we
design something to work under certain
conditions the other opposing condition
the inclement conditions incompatible
conditions will inevitably arise
somewhere sometime I remember speaking
with someone who was an ardent supporter
of nuclear power under absolutely all
circumstances add to say look even if
you believe this solution is safe when
you're talking about a newly constructed
power plant in southern Ontario under
the oversight of the Canadian government
how do you feel about this nuclear power
plant and simply by using google and
wikipedia i had come up with some
examples from venezuela and other South
American countries some of them
constructed in the 1970s some in the
early 1980s and as soon as I knew the
names of those power plants I could very
rapidly google and see scientists you
know experts nuclear physicists etc
scientists expressing their concern that
these specific reactors were of
tremendous danger to the public
tremendous danger of the environment and
that the government's concern really did
not have the budget or the expertise to
properly and safely regulate them
operate them etc and in some cases the
aging infrastructure the fact that the
day were built in the 1970s early
nineties that was itself part of the
problem part of the concern now if you
go through step by step the human
decisions and the hubris but human
decisions made step by step in Japan
Fukushima Daiichi there are terrible
terrible lessons to be learned from that
one of the great overarching themes is
that people in positions of power in our
era people who wear business suits with
suspenders and who are part of the
bureaucracy people who believe in
statism people who themselves are
instruments of the state but who regard
the state
having an instrumental role that they
control manipulate those people tend to
have overweening confidence in their own
social class and in that elite classes
ability to handle all emergencies all
unforeseen problems under all
circumstances and of course from time to
time whether it's a nuclear disaster or
just stay a natural disaster such as
Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans from
time to time we see just how hollow that
those pretensions are how they're over
waiting confidence in themselves the
social class as a as a group of
technocrats as a group of experts how
really ill founded that confidences and
when those things go disastrously wrong
who is responsible who really deals with
the consequences obviously in Japan it
is not particularly the corporation that
was profiting from the status quo before
the Fukushima Fukushima Daiichi disaster
when i was living in canada i was
watching with great interest as many
years ago the privatization of some of
our nuclear facilities so the public
sector handing is over the private
sector and they had contracts that were
guaranteeing these companies that the
companies would not be responsible in
the event of an accident and so on now
again if you go through a checklist of
under what conditions is such a facility
safe and reliable and there are such
checklists and I've myself never been to
one museum that I remember explained to
me those this checklist I'm sure
actually the candidate does have some of
the safest and most reliable reactors in
the world would I however extend similar
confidence to Venezuela how about
Cambodia how about Laos how about China
how about Japan and one of the most
hilarious but again telling in terms of
human nature the history of the sella
fields facility in England in the United
Kingdom shows that wealthy Western
countries can indeed have bad
non-transparent bureaucracy
mismanagement poor decisions lack of
accountability lack of transparency and
can make the same mistakes in operating
a nuclear facility that a third world
country would make so
ah the rule here in political science is
that any project requiring management we
must prepare for the inevitability of
mismanagement and when the stakes are so
high when the consequences for
mismanagement are so terrible as they
are in the case of nuclear power plants
how really reasonably responsibly can we
organize your society to deal with that
technology now to some extent we are
dealing with it the disaster that
happened Japan doesn't happen every
month doesn't happen every year it is
rare it is exceptional to some extent
all of these societies all over the
world completely diverse in their
political backgrounds and their
bureaucratic cultures in their levels of
wealth through the levels of poverty
they're all in different ways coping
with this constant danger the reality of
nuclear power being used as an energy
source of transition it's already here
we don't have to debate it that's how
currently the whole world operates the
first world the third world africa
europe asia us everywhere I've lived
this is this is part of the reality of
modern life so in so many ways the
debate is over and the person writing to
be Kelly Kelly at your side of the
debate has already won the real problems
here I feel are not technological and
they're not even ecological in a limited
sense really the strongest party for
criticizing the dangers of nuclear power
would be the anarchist perspective would
be anarchists who can point out what the
problems are with statism with the
attitudes of people and authority who in
such a facile way can fall into a sense
of invulnerability just a sense of self
justification a sense that put it this
way they lose the fear the skepticism
the procedural vigilance that is so
necessary with the technology like
nuclear power however nuclear power is
not unique in this way actually if you
look at the technologies will rely upon
at sewage treatment plants both to
ensure the safety of our own drinking
water and to ensure that sewage being
treated and being
introduced to ecosystems whether it goes
into a lake or river of the ocean those
technologies also were terrifying and if
there's one incompetent drunk in the
factory for just one day that actually
can result in a whole city of people
getting food poisoning waterborne
illness what are you going to say um and
if they're you know can result in
polluting the whole ecosystem terribly
and so on so there are other public
services there are other technologies in
the service of public good this way that
may fall under private sector control
that may fall under public sector or
maybe a hybrid of the two where we have
to ask the same questions and while i am
not an anarchist and I don't even
sympathize thinner chasm I think this is
an interesting case where actually the
haha rigour of an anarchist perspective
you know kit can be really a useful
gadflies as a Socratic reference in a
useful way it can stimulate us to
question our assumptions and to realize
that beneath the veneer of seemingly
responsible men in blue suits and ties
even in a wealthy country like Japan
there can be profound in competence a
profound lack of responsibility a
profound lack of accountability and in
fact you know beneath the veneer of that
professionalism we can be you know
sowing the seeds of a disaster where
none of us really can ever be
accountable for the long-term
consequences